All right.
So the next thing I'd like to do is to start styling our input elements that we're going to place within
our form.
So this is going to be a purely CSR based lesson.
And I am going to introduce some new Tailwind classes along the way.
As a reminder, I am unfortunately not access expert, so I apologize if we fly through some of these
classes.
As a reminder, what I did is look at the existing Google Careers website, find the styles through
the elements inspector and translate them to Tailwind.
So this is by no means a perfect CSR implementation.
It's as good as I can do.
And if you're curious about any of these details, I encourage you to look at the Tailwind documentation
to find what these classes add and then do research on the equivalence.
Yes, that's properties.
I continue to grow in a similar direction every day of my coding career.
So with that right below our awesome icon, we're going to create a DIV and this data is going to be
a container that will store our three elements that I'm going to place in here.
And we're going to have a input field for the role and input field for the location.
And in between those two, I'm going to actually place a span element and that span is going to have
the word N written inside it.
The idea on the official website is that you have a role in a location and that inbox separates those
two input fields.
So on this top level div, I'll assign a couple of classes, I'll make it a Flexbox, and then I will
assign a new class called Flex No Wrap.
That's going to ensure that the flex children of this Flexbox do not wrap on onto new lines.
So they're all going to stay on one line.
Then I'll add the flex one class.
This allows this dev to grow or shrink as needed.
So I believe this is for the flex of the parent, which is the form and this div class as or this dev
element as a child of the upper level form element.
Then I want to assign this div a height of 100% of its parent with the h full class.
Then what I'm going to do is add a class called text base that is going to make the font size 16 pixels,
so sort of the standard average font for anything throughout the app.
And then finally, I'm going to make the font a little bit lighter.
So I'll apply the font like class, which will apply a font weight of 300.
So a little bit lighter, less bold, if you will.
And we do have this font weight available because when we imported our Google fonts earlier in the course,
we included several variants of them, including a bold variant and a light variant.
Okay.
So in here, as I mentioned, we're going to have our two input elements and I will create two divs
to store them.
So here's my first div, here is my second div.
And then as I mentioned in between those two Divs, we're going to have a span.
All right.
And that span is going to have the keyword in inside it.
Okay.
So let's start with our first day right here at the very top.
We're going to add some classes here as well.
We're going to apply a position of relative to this div by giving it the class name relative from Tailwind.
And the reason we need this div to be positioned relatively is because inside it we're eventually going
to have a label element and that label element needs to be positioned absolutely relative to this div,
we're going to actually maneuver that label to escape the confines of this div of this box.
I'll show you that in just a few minutes.
All right.
This div will also be a Flexbox.
And we're going to vertically center its flex children using the items center class.
I'm also going to add flex one here so this component can grow or shrink as needed relative to its flex
parent.
And then I also want to apply the H4 class here to give it a height of 100%.
And I want to add a little bit of padding, but only on the right side.
So there is some separation between the div and the span.
As far as the text that's going to be inside the div, I want some distance so it doesn't start getting
too close to the span with the end keyword.
So I'll add padding on the right and I'm going to have the class of PR three, which is 12 pixels of
padding on the right hand side.
All right.
Inside this div, we're going to have two elements.
The first is going to be a label for our input, and that label is going to have the text that describes
what the user should enter and the input.
And that text is going to be role.
So in other words, the role that the user is searching for and let's go ahead and apply our classes
to the label right here.
This label is going to be positioned absolutely relative to its parent.
So I'm going to apply a class of absolute and then I need to provide some clarifications on where exactly
I want to place this label compared to its parent div.
So I want to start by adding a class of left zero that applies the left attribute or left property with
a value of zero pixels.
So this means the top left corner of the parent div.
So we're going to start the top left corner and then I actually want to make it go above the top border
or the top boundary of the data that I have that is enclosing this label.
So there's a class called minus or negative top ten, and you can see what that is going to do is apply
the top property with a value of -40 pixels.
So what I'm going to do here is make this label escape the div that it is within and be rendered 40
pixels above where that div is.
Even though we're placing it inside the div from a semantic HTML perspective, it's going to be rendered
40 pixels above the div that it is in.
All right.
So below the label, we can have our input field.
It's going to be a soft closing input field.
We're going to give it a type of text and we do need some placeholder text in here as well.
So the user knows what to enter.
And I'm going to give a placeholder of software engineer and then we're going to add some classes here
as well.
Will make this input occupy 100% of its parents with by adding the W for class making the width 100%.
I do want the text here to be a little bit larger than the regular text base that we applied on the
div two levels above.
So I will add the text algae class.
That is going to make the font size 18 pixels so a little bit larger compared to the other text nearby.
Then I do not want my light font here.
I want my regular font, so I'll do font normal here.
So not bolded, not light, just a regular font weight of 400.
And then one more thing I'd like to add here.
Whenever we click into the input by default, what the browser does is it creates this outline around
the box.
That's this blue indicator box that tells the user where they should type.
And it can actually be pretty jarring because it does.
It kind of just looks awkward on the screen.
But I only want to remove that outline when the user is actually focused in on the input when they click
into the input box because that is the only time that it renders.
So you may recall earlier in the course when we were building the action button, we were able to apply
styles to the action button, but only on hover.
And the way we did that is by pre fixing our class with hover colon and that indicated to to view and
to tailwind to only apply the follow up class when we were in that hover state of the button.
Well, similarly here, what I can do is apply the focus prefix, so focus colon and that will indicate
to apply a given tailwind utility class, but only when the input is in a focus state.
In other words, when the user has clicked into the actual input.
And so the class I want here is outline none.
And what that is going to do is remove that blue box that appears in Chrome and other browsers around
the input.
So the user is not going to be feeling awkward by this random box that pops up around or input.
Okay.
The next thing I'd like to do is to style our span.
So right here, we're just going to write out a whole bunch of classes for this box.
We're going to make it a flex box with flex.
We're going to vertically center the content with Item Center.
We're going to give it the full class to give it a 100% height.
We're going to apply padding, but only on the left and right side.
So the x axis.
So I can do that with my classes p for padding x four axis here I want to do x three.
That's going to apply 12 pixels of padding on the left, 12 pixels of padding on the right.
That's just going to give some space for my n keyword.
Then I'd like to apply a border, but only on the left side and the right side of this box, because
the top is just going to blend in naturally with the form container.
So in order to apply a border on only the left side, I can do a class called Border L that applies
one pixel of a border or a one pixel border on the left hand side of the span.
And then for the right border, I'll do a similar class of border dash.
Ah, that is short for border right now.
As far as the actual border color, we're going to use one of our new colors, which is brand gray three.
Okay.
So now we've taken care of the border and the text and the final class that I'd like to do here is going
to specify the background color.
So for background, we can do the big family of classes.
And here I want to use another new color that we added, which is brand gray, too.
So if I search for brand gray, too, it's going to be big brand gray, too, for our background.
Let's save that.
And we're going to have Predator do its magic.
And so here is our first input.
Here is our span, which is a little box that says the word in.
And then here's where we can put our second box for our location.
So right here, as always, we're going to apply some classes and they're going to be very similar to
our div above.
So we're going to make the position of this div relative with the relative class, then a flex class
to make it a flexbox vertically align the content with item center apply flex one to make it grow and
shrink relative to its parent.
So as its parent expands or shrinks, this one will shrink as well.
Then we want to apply a 100% height using the full class and then a little bit of padding.
But unlike the previous div, I want to make this padding on the left hand side to again create some
separation for the text inside this div.
But relative to this span.
So because this dev is to the right of the span, I want to create some padding on the left in comparison
in this div right here, we created some padding on the right again to create the respective separation
for the text within our div relative to the span that is in between them.
Okay.
So then we can actually copy the label and the input from above because we're going to have a very similar
setup down below.
So let's copy our label an input and paste it inside this div right here.
All right.
So we are still going to keep this absolute class in order to move this label a little bit outside the
confines of our div.
And this.
Minus ten.
Minus top ten class is going to make it 40 pixels above the confines of the div.
Except here, of course, we're not going to ask the user for their role.
We're going to ask them for their location.
And what they actually have on the Google site is the question where perfect.
So here we're going to have another input field.
It's type will still be text, but for the placeholder, we actually have to put some sample city.
So let's put Los Angeles.
And we're going to keep the remainder of the classes here.
So 100% with a 16 point font that is regular font weight.
And we're going to get rid of that blue outline that appears when the user focuses in on the element.
Okay.
So that is going to create our beginner inputs.
Let's take a look at what that looks like right now in the browser.
All right.
So looking good.
So we have this text appearing outside the confines of the div.
We have our icon, we have this form input element where we can type.
We have this span with the text in and then we have the city ID.
But the one thing that's missing from this, of course, is a button right here on the right hand side
that's going to have the words search inside it.
And if we push this button in here, it's also going to push this content a little bit to the left and
make it look a little bit cleaner.
So let's head back to our component and we're going to use our familiar reusable action button component.
So let's go ahead and import it down below here in the script section.
I'm going to import my action button component from our top level source directory components action
button that view.
And then of course, I simply cannot use it by itself.
I need to register it as a local component in job search form.
So right here I'll add my components key and I'll add my jobs or not.
My job search form.
My action button component.
Perfect.
That allows me to use my action button component anywhere in my template and where I want to render
it is right before the conclusion of the form.
So the way it's going to work is if I go up here and I collapse this div, we're going to have our font
awesome icon.
We're going to have this div that's going to store our actual input fields.
And then after that div, we're going to render our action button component.
So here I can do action dash button.
It's going to be a self-closing component.
Now, as a reminder, the action button that we designed takes two props and they are text and type.
Our text prop specifies the text that's going to appear on this button.
So right here I can write text equals and let's produce the string here of search.
So our button will have the text search.
As a reminder, if we are providing a prop, a basic string, we do not need to bind to it using the
v bind syntax.
So we do not need the colon here, just the prop name and an equal sign and the value is sufficient,
just like any HTML attribute.
And the same rules are going to apply for the type prop.
So as a reminder, the type prop accepts one of two strings, either primary or secondary, depending
on the style that we want, and we want the secondary button style.
Finally, I'd like to apply one class here, and this is just to ensure that our button is going to
be rounded because our outer form is rounded as well.
So I do not want to have the button be a rectangle within our form because because that will prove a
little bit jarring for the user.
So what I'm going to do here is provide a class very similar to the one we have here.
But instead of rounded three Excel, which applies a rounded border around the entire element.
What I'd like to do is just create this rounded effect on the right side of my action band, because
that is where the action button is going to flow into my form, which is rounded.
So I'm going to make the right side of my action button rounded by doing, rounded are or rounded.
Right.
And I'm going to set it similarly equal to three Excel.
All right.
So if I go back into my browser, let's see what we have here.
So this is looking pretty decent.
We now have our role, we have our location, we have our two input fields.
And if I hover my mouse over search, let's see what happens here.
Okay, so this is not perfect.
Notice that we have a little bit of the kind of square effect around it.
We're not actually getting it to blend in with the curved corner of our form.
So in order to fix this, let's go back to our action button component.
So here I'm going to open up that action button.
And what I'm actually going to do here is you'll notice we're always applying the tailwind rounded class
right here, no matter which button we have.
What I'm actually going to do is I'm going to move this rounded class from our general button styles
to just our primary class for now.
So only when the button is a primary button will we have it rounded.
Otherwise the secondary class will not apply a rounded by default.
So we're not going to have that rounded style when we start out.
So in other words, when we transition back to the browser, our secondary button will not start off
as rounded.
So if I click in here, that gets us somewhere closer to where we want.
I notice it's still not perfect because there is a little bit of kind of white spacing between the edges
of the form and the start of the search button.
But this is good enough for me.
That's close enough and it kind of looks presentable enough to me for me to continue.
All right.
So that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
We created these two input elements right here where we can enter the role and the location.
And we created the search button that is going to trigger the submission of the form and eventually
our navigation to the jobs page where the user will see the results.
So I will see you in the next lesson.